h1. Savon Handsoap Shootout

This is the code repository for a "technical article":http://blog.nofail.de/2010/01/savon-handsoap-shootout/ on two popular SOAP clients "Savon":http://github.com/rubiii/savon and "Handsoap":http://github.com/unwire/handsoap/.

You should have "RVM":http://blog.nofail.de/2010/01/xruby-on-the-mac/ installed for the different examples.

h2. Which versions are being compared?

We try to always compare the latest versions of both libraries. Right now we use: *Savon 0.7.6* and *Handsoap 1.1.7* and *Soap4r* running on *Ruby 1.8.7* and *JRuby 1.4.0*.

h2. Getting started

"Download":http://github.com/phoet/savon_handsoap_shootout/archives/master or clone the repository via:

<pre>
git clone git://github.com/phoet/savon_handsoap_shootout.git
</pre>

You can install all dependencies with "Bundler":http://gembundler.com/:

<pre>
rvm use 1.8.7@savon_handsoap_shootout --create
gem install bundler
bundle install
</pre>

Or the equivalent thing in JRuby:

<pre>
rvm use jruby-1.5.2@savon_handsoap_shootout --create
gem install bundler
bundle install --without=no_jruby
</pre>

h2. How to use

If you want to execute the examples, there are some rake tasks for your convenience:

<pre>
# show all rake tasks
rake -T
</pre>

Run rake to execute the specifications. 
The default rake task executing the specs will exit unless all public SOAP services are available.
Look at the examples comparing the use of Savon and Handsoap in the "lib/shootout" folder.

h2. How to help

If you own or know about a public SOAP service that we could use, please get in touch.

h2. Problems?

In case of a *LoadError*, please "make sure Rubygems is used":http://gist.github.com/54177.
